---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My Progress in Programming
date: 2020-11-10
labels: 
  - Shidler Undergraduate
  - ITM 352
---

Aloha Everyone!

1) My programming skills have greatly improved throughout the semester. I am now comfortable with using HTML, enjoy using CSS to style my pages, and am continuing to learn and grow with the use of javascript. Not only do I feel more comfortable with these very new languages, I also learned to think differently as well. Coding is basically breaking everything down into the "nitty-gritty" components of a website and understanding how each line of code works. I have improved on understanding how to change the server, but still have so much to learn.

2) I need to work on many things to improve my progrmming skills. One personal issue of mines that I actually struggle with in multiple aspects of my life is procrastination. When you fall behind in coding, it is very very difficult to get ahead and keep up with the work. Procrastination is one of my biggest challenges in this class. Another thing I need to work on is committing more time and effort into my work. Rather than reading and doing examples of code, I only read the readings and listen to the lectures. Another important thing I need to work on is not giving up. I notice that when I get stressed I give up and say "I'll work on this later" which only leads to more stress and procrastination for me.

3) I can attempt the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first. For some of the WODs, I am able to attempt the WOD on my own first, and sometimes end up completeing it fully without the video. However, there are some times where I attempt the WOD without the video, get stuck, try to figure out the issue, restart the entire WOD without the video and still cannot complete it without the video. I try to spend more time on the WODs since the WODs are really what enforces what we learn in class and is good practice that I can do on my own without following the Lab. If I get really stuck and cannot figure out what I am doing wrong after 2 tries, I watch the video, then attempt the WOD on my own.

4) The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with semi-confidence. The labs are helpful. I thought it was cool to see Professor Kazman come to do a Lab or workshop with us because I think it's useful to see a Professor and their teaching style in case I choose to take a class with them in the future. I also think it's helpful to hear a different voice every so often to keep us engaged. The labs are helpful when attempting the assignments and for compeleteing WODs. For the most part, the explanations gonwe over in class and the readings really help me to complete the Labs with a little more ease and confidence.

5) I feel nearly ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications like Assignment 1. I feel confident in creating web pages, invoices using HTML and JS, and using CSS to style the webpages. My biggest concern for Assignment 1 is crafting a server that works for my webpages. I believe learning about the server is the more difficult concept we have learned by far in ITM 352 and I still have toruble with it after doing the readings, watching the screencasts, and doing the Lab with both Professor Port and Kazman. I am confident with HTML, JS, and CSS, but am not yet confident about coding a server that works.

6) I think the class can be improved to help my learning by discussing server-side coding a bit more in depth. I believe I have expressed well enough that I struggle with server-side processing often enough, and believe I could use any extra help with server-side processing as I can get. Professor Port offers many opportunities to help outside of class, however, it takes me a little while for me to learn on my own and to figure out my challenges before I ask for help. I believe it could be improved by going through the parts of the course a little more in depth rather than scratching the surface. This might help me to understand the material better, even if it means not covering as much or moving faster during the easier portions of the semester so that the end of the semester isn't as rushed.

7) Some things that work really well for my learning in this class is the recorded lecutres. It's nice to have the live zoom lectures recorded so that I can go back and refer to them when working on the Labs or the Assignments. It also helps to review the lectures after class incase I missed a line of code or did not understand a concept and needed to research it an re-review it. I also found it helpful to make friends in the class. Everyone is going through a similar struggle in this class and it's nice to knwo that there are others who are willing to help out and look at your code if you need it or figuring out the code together to make it work for both of you.

This class created a lot of opportunities to learn and use your creativity to make something that is completely your own. With the help of the professor, classmates, recorded leactures, and some internet researching, the class was made possible and insteresting to learn about!
